parachains/runtimes/assets/README.md, before:

# Assets Parachain

Implementation of _Statemint_, a blockchain to support generic assets in the Polkadot and Kusama
networks.

Statemint allows users to:

- Deploy promise-backed assets, both fungible and non-fungible, with a DOT/KSM deposit.
- Set admin roles to manage assets and asset classes.
- Register assets as "self-sufficient" if the Relay Chain agrees, i.e. gain the ability for an
  asset to justify the existance of accounts sans DOT/KSM.
- Pay transaction fees using sufficient assets.
- Transfer (and approve transfer) assets.
- Interact with the chain via its transactional API or XCM.

Statemint must stay fully aligned with the Relay Chain it is connected to. As such, it will accept
the Relay Chain's governance origins as its own.

See
[the article on Statemint as common good parachain](https://www.parity.io/blog/statemint-generic-assets-chain-proposing-a-common-good-parachain-to-polkadot-governance/)
for a higher level description.

Wallets, custodians, etc. should see
[the Polkadot Wiki's Integration Guide](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/build-integrate-assets)
for details about support.

Commit message:

Rename Statemint to Asset Hub (#2633)
* change dir names

* cargo toml updates

* fix crate imports for build

* change chain spec names and PR review rule

* update cli to accept asset-hub

* find/replace benchmark commands

* integration tests

* bridges docs

* more integration tests

* AuraId

* other statemint tidying

* rename statemint mod

* chain spec mod

* rename e2e test dirs

* one more Runtime::Statemine

* benchmark westmint

* rename chain spec name and id

* rename chain spec files

* more tidying in scripts/docs/tests

* rename old dir if exists

* Force people to manually do the move.

(Safer as there could be additional considerations with their setup)

* review touchups

* more renaming

* Update polkadot-parachain/src/command.rs

Co-authored-by: Bastian Köcher <git@kchr.de>

* better error message

* do not break on-chain spec_name

* log info message that path has been renamed

* better penpal docs

---------

Co-authored-by: gilescope <gilescope@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Bastian Köcher <git@kchr.de>
Co-authored-by: parity-processbot <>

parachains/runtimes/assets/README.md, after:

# Assets Parachain

Implementation of Asset Hub, a blockchain to support generic assets in the Polkadot and Kusama
networks. Asset Hub was formerly known as "Statemint".

Asset Hub allows users to:

- Deploy promise-backed assets, both fungible and non-fungible, with a DOT/KSM deposit.
- Set admin roles to manage assets and asset classes.
- Register assets as "self-sufficient" if the Relay Chain agrees, i.e. gain the ability for an
  asset to justify the existance of accounts sans DOT/KSM.
- Pay transaction fees using sufficient assets.
- Transfer (and approve transfer) assets.
- Interact with the chain via its transactional API or XCM.

Asset Hub must stay fully aligned with the Relay Chain it is connected to. As such, it will accept
the Relay Chain's governance origins as its own.

See
[the article on Asset Hub as common good parachain](https://www.parity.io/blog/statemint-generic-assets-chain-proposing-a-common-good-parachain-to-polkadot-governance/)
for a higher level description.

Wallets, custodians, etc. should see
[the Polkadot Wiki's Integration Guide](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/build-integrate-assets)
for details about support.
